# Minutes June 16th


## Methodology 


* Fits of the form I \propto ( DeltaE - E_bg)^b are unstable since E_bg 
is very sensitive on the subtraction strategy (which is a generic 
problem, not only from our side). However it is very reassuring that the 
value of the exponent b is much more stable, at least consistent within 
uncertainties, so this is a piece of good news.

* One cannot really just use the ZLP recorded in vaccuum do subtract it 
from the data. The reason is that the region near DeltaE=0 receives 
different contributions in vacuum (where the broadening is of purely 
instrumental origin) and in sample (where in addition one has 
contributions from elastic scattering off the sample material). 
I_sample, the signal that we want to identify, is defined in this case 
as the contribution from inelastic scattering.

* A potentially useful handle is the property that one expects the ZLP 
to be symmetric under DeltaE \to -DeltaE (is this a mathematical 
property?). Then one can use this property to train a ML model in the 
region DeltaE < 0 and then apply to substract the contribution to the 
DeltaE > 0 region. It seems that I_ZLP(-DeltaE) = I_ZLP(DeltaE) is only 
true in the presence of a monochromator.

* Ideally we want to check how stable the results of the subtraction are 
when at least two independent methods are used.


## Checks

 How good is the "symmetry" assumption in the data that we have? It is 
true both for vacuum and for sample data?

(Note: when we compare anything we do it at the model level. So a better 
way to rephrase this question is: if I train a NN model for DeltaE < 0, 
and another one for DeltaE > 0, are the mirrored models in agreement 
within errors?)

- Is the difference between I_ZLP^sample/I_ZLP^vacuum somewhat 
universal? Is there an optimal way to exploit this information? Can we 
construct a ML model for this ratio, using the same techniques as those 
use to fit the absolute distributions?

- If the symmetry assumption is verified, we will use it to determine 
the values of DeltaE1 and DeltaE2 in a more reliable way. Even better, 
we will be able to estimate the error on the choice of DeltaE1 and 
DeltaE2, and propagate it to the final subtraction. This is a bit 
subtler so I will try to write it down in equations. But it makes the 
whole analysis much more robust.
