* The single scattering distribution S(DeltaE) is proportional to Im[-1/epsilon(DeltaE)], everything else fixed, at least for bulk materials.

* The normalisation factor depends on parameters which are known (like ZLP integral and microscope parameters) and of the thickness of the material.

* The real part then is found via KK relations.

* From the knowledge of the single scattering distribution S(DeltaE) and the real part of epsilon(DeltaE=0) one can extract the thickness of the sample.

* The calculation of the dielectric function, including also surface contributions, is available in HyperSpy.

* In the presence of surface contributions, the SSD has two components

S_tot = S_b + S_s

which can be evaluated using an iterative method.

* S_b and S_s are proportional to C_b(DeltaE) and C_s(DeltaE). We need to understand what are these functions, and how we can use them to maximise the discrimination.

* This is an important physics question: how do surface effects modify the calculation of the local dielectric function?

* In principle one should also include here edge excitations.

* If we have S_tot for samples with different thickness, we could use ML to separate the S_b  and S_s from the data without the need of any assumptions. But for this we need a lot of spectra, which we can only get from spectral images. We need to investigate how we can use HyperSpy to read spectral images and output them in a format which is useful in EELSfitter.

* For the time being we will neglect relativistic corrections in our calculation.

* Re(epsilon) is related to the polarizability of the material, while Im(epsilon) to the energy dissipation. When Re(epsilon)  crosses zero this indicates a transition in the system.

* Can we use the local dielectric function to tell apart metallic from semiconducting behaviour?

Action items
-------------

* Use the determination of the SSD and the ZLP to evaluate the thickness of the samples used in Laurien's paper. Compare the found results with those that Sonia obtained from Digital Micrograph. In case of disagreement, try to spot the difference.

* Run HyperSpy and use it determine the dielectric function from one of our spectra, and compare with the results of our own code.

* Investigate how we can use HyperSpy to read spectral images and output them in a format which is useful in EELSfitter

* Think how we can separate S_b and S_s from the data using ML interpolants and classifiers.

Next meeting: Fri 27th @ 2pm


