* The big piece of news is that the independent code put together by Isabel and Jaco reproduces the calculation of the dielectric function implemented in HyperSpy. This is quite a non-trivial milestone and we are all very happy that we have made it this far!

* Accounting for surface scattering effects in the case of the very thin specimen since to be problematic, since the iterative process that we designed fails if these surface plasmon effects are not a perturbation of the bulk contribution. This is not completely unexpected since for a thin sample surface effects can be comparable or even dominate with respect to bulk effects.

* Indeed if we compare S_S(DeltaE) for the thin sample, we see that it provides the dominant contribution at low energy losses.

* Clearly at this point we have two possible directions for the next steps:

1) To focus on the very thin samples and try to develop a method to extract the dielectric function when surface contributions are important

2) To focus on relatively think samples and exploit the fact that now we can compute the dielectric function in a reliable way.

* We decided to move to 2) for the time being, and at a later stage we might get back to 1). So the idea is now to process spectral images (.dm3 files) and for this we will use hyperspy for data I/O. The idea is to read the spectral image for specimen A of Laurien's paper and

- Remove the ZLP using the model we already have (no training involved)

- Determine in each pixel what is the thickness

- Produce a heat map of the thickness

- Evaluate the dielectric function in each pixel

- Determine when the dielectric function crosses the x axis (or any other interesting figure), and produce the corresponding heat map.

Once we have this there is a lot of very interesting physics that we can do, for example we can correlate thickness with properties of the dielectric function and many other interesting analyses.

* In all this procedure we neglect the surface contributions, which should be a not too unreasonable approximation for the thick sample of specimen A. We will get back later to the role of the surface contributions.

* As a byproduct we can produce heat maps of other relevant features of the spectral image, for example, we can produce a heat map with the position of the maximum of the SSD and see how this maximum varies across the sample.

* Afterwards we will need to retrain the ZLP model by defining in a suitable way training, validation, and testing regions in a semi-automated way, for example regions of similar thickness, and optimise the ZLP training and determination of the dielectric function is a semi-iterative way. But this will come at a later stage
