* The three of us now have hyperspy installed and running. Jaco has produced some first calculations of the dielectric function with hyperspy and at least the code seems to work smoothly, but we are not yet at the benchmarking level. Isabel has installed some MatLab code from Egerton's website that purportedly does the same calculation, but there are many aspects of the code that still look quite obscure to us.

* In particular, we need to make sure that we reproduce all the numerical factors, TEM parameters, and units conversion that appear in hyperspy and egerton's code.

* Our goal now is to reproduce the thickness calculation of a sample starting from the corresponding EELS spectrum. We can write down the formula for t as a function of N_ZLP (the integral of the ZLP) and the single scattering distribution, both quantities that we have. So we'd like to check that for a given set of EEL spectra, such as the ones that we used for Laurien's paper, we can reproduce the thickness that is found both by Digital Micrograph and by Hyperspy.

* Once we are fully sure that the calculation of the thickness within our code is kosher, we will move to evaluate the dielectric function via the KK relations. Also there we'd like to benchmark our own calculation with the output of the corresponding routines from HyperSpy and Egerton's MatLab code.

* @Luigi: can you confirm that the MoS2 spectra that you sent to Isabel are from a DFT calculation, rather than from data? And what was the thickness that you assumed in the calculation? Without the information on the thickness, we cannot really use your EEL spectra to evaluate the dielectric function and verify that your simulation is reproduced. Which program have you used for this and what are the required inputs? Thanks in advance for the info!

* To evaluate the thickness from the EEL spectra we need some material parameters, in particular Re[ 1/ epsilon(0) ]. Is there some database or something that collects the values of these parameters for TMD materials? I would assume that these values must be known ....

* We also discussed about some possible methodological improvements in EELSfitter, in particular the use of hyperoptimisation to determine in an automated way model hyperparameters such as net architecture, learning rates and so on. This discussion is certainly important and will be essential once we start to process spectral images. Perhaps once we discuss this @laurien can join, provided she is available.
