*  We have new samples, consisting of triangular WS2 flakes that in some cases have twisted layers between them and thus could be interesting for twistronic studies. They also have different morphologies and exhibit different features, for example at their edges. These are the samples that we will use for our main studies with the spectral image processing code

* The samples are thin but not to thin so we can use the current framework for the deconvolution and the calculation of the dielectric function. 

* All the .dm4 files have been added to the repo together with a description of the relevant parameters and settings of the microscope

* The spectral_image class is now able to produce heat maps for the integrated intensity, the dielectric function etc. We agreed to extend the methods such that we can also produce a "bandgap image", where each pixel represents the position of the bandgap that one extracts after subtracting the ZLP

*  For the new batch of NN trainings we agreed on the following strategy:

1) Cluster the pixels using k-means clustering with distance defined as |T_pixel-T_mean|/T_mean, with T_mean is the mean of the k-th cluster

2) This defines k (where k is around 5) clusters of pixels.

3) We combine the spectra in each cluster to produce a single set of "experimental data" in terms of central values and total uncertainties as a function of DeltaE, as in Laurien's paper

4) We now have k sets of data, each with a different value of T_k (the center thickness in the k-th cluster).

5) Instead of training k different NNs to each dataset, now we train a single neural network with two inputs: DeltaE and T_k, so that we can combine in a single model data from different clusters

6) The generation of MC replicas etc proceeds in the same way as standard

7) We end up with a 2D model NN( Delta E, T ) that can be used for any value of DeltaE and T

8) We compute the chi2 and compare model predictions vs data, to verify that the training has worked fine

* This will be our baseline strategy. Once this works, we can try other methods, such as using bootstrapping instead of generating the data averaging over spectra

* We agreed to evaluate the central value of our model predictions as the median (rather than the mean) and the error using the 68%CL interval (rather than the standard deviation).

* Clustering has been implemented and is now working fine, as can be assessed visually by comparing with the integrated intensity map

* We will check the stability of the final model results with respect hyperparameters of the model such as the number of clusters used in k-means clustering.

* Once the model has been retrained we can produce the various plots (bandgap image, dielectric function image, thickness image etc) and try to understand the underlying physics.

* One thing we will need to do is to identify automatically features in the spectra such as plasmonic peaks (and compare their width and position), to do this unsupervised machine learning could be also useful. So it is good news that we have k-means clustering implemented.



